CSCB58 Project File: Summer 2017

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Khansa
Last Name: Kiasatina
Student Number: 1003159556
UofT E-mail Address: khansa.kiasatina@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Hoi Yan (Sherry)
Last Name: Ma
Student Number: 1003158343
UofT E-mail Address: hoi.ma@mail.utoronto.ca

Project Details
---------------
Project Title: Pyonpyon Race

Project Description:
A fun game where you compete against another player to see who can reach the end the fastest. Each player has two keys 
to press: left or right. On the screen, there'll be 25 white boxes randomly (tentative) placed on either side of a long 
pole that the player has to jump on to advance by pressing the correct key corresponding to the position of the box. 
You'll know which box you're currently on because the previous white boxes you've already been on will have changed to 
a different colour depending on which player you are. When either player finishes, the time taken for the fastest racer 
and the accuracy score for each player is displayed. The fastest time taken is saved and displayed to see if anyone else 
can beat the record.

(Other tentative ideas: The next box to advance is either red, blue, or yellow. If it is red, user has to press
the opposite key of the box position to advance. If it is blue, user has to press the corresponding key for the 
next box position to advance. If it is yellow, user had to press both keys at the same time to advance.) 

Video URL:

Code URL: https://github.com/kiasatina/pyonpyon-race

Proposal
--------
What do you plan to have completed by the end of the first lab session?:
Main:
- Test the user interface code on the VGA to see if the boxes and poles are drawn correctly in the wanted 
positions
- Check if finite state machine works by testing if colour of box changes when player presses the correct key 
to advance
Other:
- Complete the timer for the game to see if it's counting correctly depending on when the game starts and 
stops
- Test the decimal decoder written for the time and accuracy score
- (optional) Test the randomisation modules to see if the positions of the boxes change when a new game starts

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the second lab session?:
Main:
- Debug main code to fix any errors or issues present
Other:
- Add or remove features of game depending on whether they work or not, for example randomisation, new colours
for the boxes, removing colours altogether

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the third lab session?:
Main:
- Debug main code so that we actually have something to present in the last lab session

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
- Randomisation modules don't work: positions of boxes remain fixed even if new game starts
- Colour doesn't change when user advances: player has to be attentive and decide for themselves which key
to press next

What hardware will you need beyond the DE2 board 
- VGA monitor

Motivations
-----------
How does this project relate to the material covered in CSCB58?:
The project contains finite state machines for features like recording where the player is currently at in the race and 
allowing the players' accuracy to be calculated. It also countains counters to count the time taken for either player to 
reach the end, and also to calculate their scores. For the time taken, a rate divider will be used so that it counts time 
accurately. The VGA monitor will be used to output the poles and boxes so the player can visually see the boxes to know
which key to press next. Hex decoders will be used to show the player's accuracy score while playing the game and at the 
end, the time taken by the fastest player to reach the end.

Why is this project interesting/cool (for CSCB58 students, and for non CSCB58 students?):
You get to compete against another player to see who is the fastest and most accurate at pressing the correct key corresponding 
to what's on the screen. It also contains a lot of pretty complicated features (VGA monitor, counters, FSMs) that was covered in 
the course and put together to create a cohesive game.

Why did you personally choose this project?:
It was inspired by a mini game in the game Mario Party on the Nintendo DS called Domino Effect. We wanted to create a game 
with simple instructions and controls but still fun to play with and easy to bring out the competitive spirit in both players.

Attributions
------------
Positive edge detector module: http://www.chipverify.com/verilog/positive-edge-detector-verilog
Rate divider module: https://gist.github.com/wgma00/4aec84c9937b4c6db64b290342f0470f
VGA adapter module: Lab 6 starter code

Updates
-------

Week 1: We tested the decimal counter we wrote for our timer and score-keeper and it worked perfectly. The .mif file we had 
intended to use for the initial state didn't work because the depth was too high (32768 compared to 19200) so we spent a while 
trying to find other ways to convert a .bmp file to a .mif file. We couldn't find any so we had to write the .mif file manually 
and kept testing it using the VGA monitor. We couldn't get the reset module we wrote to work so instead of resetting all the 
boxes to white again, we decided to just change the colour of the boxes when a new game starts. We were also finding it difficult 
to draw a 3x3 box continuously despite having the code for it, so we decided to just change the colour of the middle of a box 
when the player gets to that box.

Week 2: We tested the .mif file again and the graphics showed up after doing some minor changes on the .mif file. We tested 
the reset module and it works when it is by itself, but not when it's combined with other parts or in another module. We 
tested the FSM for the game but it doesn't work. We think there are problems in the connections between the datapath and the 
control because when we test the counter and reset outside the datapath, it works fine. We changed the states of the datapath 
from using if statements to case statements to check if it would work but it didn't. The player module we created is supposed 
to show a dot on the screen when the player advances to the next box but it didn't. We tried to debug and rewrite it but we 
just couldn't get it to work. We are planning on not plotting the dot on the monitor every time the player presses a correct 
key. We will just decrease the score counter whenever the player press the correct key, and when the player score counter 
reaches zero, the game will stop. We are also planning on changing the game to a one-player game, so that they play against a 
CPU in three different modes: easy, medium, hard, so the speed at which the CPU advances in the boxes depends on which mode 
the player chooses.

Week 3: We decided to ditch the VGA monitor until we can get the actual game working first. First, we fixed the connection
to the HEX so that the scores and time shows up when the hardware starts up. Initially, the score was counting up for the 
boxes but we decided to count down so that the player knows how many boxes left to traverse. We changed our idea of using 
an FSM to check where the player is currently at to using a shifter module to check if the player should press the left or 
right key next. We had trouble with trying to get the shifter to work but after fixing some connections, it shifts properly. 
We also changed the player controls from pressing the keys to toggling the switches to imitate actual jumping between boxes, 
and made sure that the shifter shifts whenever the player toggles the correct key. We show the next switch to toggle in the 
LED above the switch. Now the player score decreases whenever the player toggles the correct key. We also added the CPU in 
the game which can be controlled with 4 speeds: easy, medium, hard, and extreme so that the player can try to beat the CPU.
When either the player or CPU finishes, the timer stops and score stops as well, and we added a high score module so that 
if the player wins and the time is lower than the current high score, it gets saved into the game and displayed. Since all
the controls in the game work, as of now we are working on trying to plot to the VGA monitor whenever the player or CPU goes
to the next box. The reset module for the VGA works fine, but the plotter module for CPU only goes back to the start when a
player or CPU wins, and not when we reset it. The CPU module also sometimes goes 2 boxes at a time for some reason. We find
that when the player plays at the same time as the CPU (as it should be), some boxes get skipped and there are also stray
boxes plotted on the screen, so we decided to just use the CPU plotting module to show that it works.
